foreign
[Music]
love can't really exist without
empowerment you can be fond of you can
be scared of losing but to actually love
in a way that is beyond you that is a
deep welcoming the only way you can
deeply welcome is to feel deeply
empowered to not be worried of the
results
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
foreign
[Music]
how to defend ourselves from a very
young age but few of us are taught the
pragmatic Power of Love we build a
series of walls we can put up whenever
someone makes us uncomfortable
what if those very walls create a drag
on life that slows down our dreams and
what if love is an easy to use tool that
turns all that friction into forward
momentum
today's topic is love over defense so
Joe we've all heard all you need is love
love will tear us apart love is the
answer we get hit with these phrases all
the time but it's hard to tell what
anybody really means by love so what do
you mean by love oh that's a good
question that's a big one um laughs
before I say what I mean by love let me
let me say what is often considered when
people are thinking about the definition
of love
so one of the things that I see is that
people think about it
they dissect it kind of the way the
Greeks did which was like there's like
the
love of friendship like the friend the
love you'd have with a friend the love
you'd have
this romantic the love that you would
have with God uh the love that would be
you know very very much dissected by who
you were loving and how they had
different
um visceral experiences in the body
uh for me I think about love uh slightly
differently I think about love is in
there's a love that feels a lot like
peace and there's a love that feels a
lot like enjoyment
and there's a love that feels a lot like
care
deep a deep welcoming
and so when I'm speaking about love
I would say that it's it's close to the
this closest to like a deep welcoming
they're all components of love right
it's not like
it's not like one of these is a better
love than the other or one of these is a
separate love than the other
but that deep welcoming seems to be like
the the biggest leverage point it's what
seems to activate everything else the
most hmm yeah what makes what makes that
the deepest leverage point
I'm not sure if I have a great answer
for that uh outside of experience
um
I mean it's a dance for sure meaning
that like when I it when I really put
myself out there and deeply care for
myself or care for others then that
absolutely helps me have a deeper
welcoming of all life all people all
parts of myself
but what I notice is the focus on that
deep welcoming
towards self towards others towards life
that seems to have a very big influence
on my sense of peace my sense of
enjoyment and my sense of care
it just seems like it has like the
biggest turbo booster and and I think in
my life what I've noticed is different
ones at different times have bigger
turbo boosting potential so to speak
but that deep welcoming seems to be like
the center of gravity for all of it
sounds like what you're saying is that
this the the Deep welcoming is letting
information letting letting the world be
seen by you and be felt by you and
letting it impact you
as it is yeah it's just letting it yeah
exactly it's allowing myself to be
touched
yeah so what would be the the next most
important leverage point for me I think
it's care it's self-care and care of
others
you know if you look at different
religious Traditions you'll see that
they kind of fall into these different
categories like they're focused on these
categories more or less the Buddhist
piece has a big emphasis
um Taoist enjoyment has a deep emphasis
in the Christianity care has a deep
emphasis
so for me the care one seems to have a
big impact there's something about being
generous
and being giving that also dissolves the
self in such a way that it creates a lot
of peace
and a deep welcoming so it's another
really influential one the the dilemma
with the care one is that
all of these ways of loving
they have
um kind of a dark shadow on the other
side and the peace side of things for
instance can become disassociation the
enjoyment side of things can be Hedonism
the care can be codependency
and a deep welcoming can can become an
apathy of sorts and it can become a um a
giving up of responsibility so all of
them have a way to have a shadow take
over them yeah it sounds like it sounds
like that the Deep welcoming and the the
dark shadow that the apathy a lot of
that seems to relate to surrender and
the way that people talk about surrender
how how does this relate to surrender
for you and many Traditions have
surrendered as an important part of the
journey to love that's exactly right so
surrender it's a path
to love and it's also the result of Love
or the other way to say that is
surrender is a path to a deep welcoming
but it's also the result of a deep
welcoming and so many Traditions have
surrender being the first step the first
step is to surrender to Jesus or in um
in like Buddhist monasteries for
instance the first Buddha you see in
China in particular the first Buddha
that you see is kind of this happy fat
Buddha who's you know plenty and that
kind of gets you into the temple and
once you're into the temple then it's
like surrender and then once you've
surrendered and it's surrendered to the
teacher to Buddha and then
or to the teachings or to the Dharma and
then beyond that is compassion right is
that
is that a deep care of self and others
and they have different Buddhas or
different you know archetypes in the
different stages of the temple depending
on you know how far in you are or
allowed to be and it it's a great
description of how that Journey works
generally
in the Western World however surrender
has
has some connotations and some issues
that I don't know whether it's just
people thought of surrender differently
than as they do now but the Dilemma
generally with a surrender is that it's
been used to subjugate people it's been
used to
have people follow without their full
authenticity involved
I Stray away from the word for that
reason the real key is what are you
surrendering to
right if you surrender to Jesus you're
not just surrendering to Jesus you're
surrendering to the concept of Jesus in
your head
or what you think the scripture says
and
surrender is so incredibly powerful and
it's very very much a deep welcoming
when you're surrendering to
that very quiet call inside of you to
that impulse
to that thing that is
always there it always knows the right
direction
but that we always have a voice in our
head that shoots it down
perhaps surrender into that so so what
do we lose by not emphasizing surrender
given that it's been so useful in so
many Traditions but also there's these
problematic aspects and particularly in
the way that it's conceptualized in the
west and what do you what do we lose by
you not emphasizing it in your uh in
your conception of Love here
what we lose and not emphasizing it is
another way to
lose our identity in general all of
these methods the the Deep care the
surrender
the
Silence of meditation all of them are
just ways to
get past the illusion of self
it is to
evaporate the identity to see yourself
beyond the small Me That You Think You
Are
to see yourself outside
of your everyday cares and worries it it
is to not be able to identify with the
voice in your head anymore that's
generally what all these paths are
pointing to there's other less known
Traditions too there's a way of
um losing your identity in a group
that's healthy and unlike most of the
ways people lose identities in groups
um and you know the Quakers had some
great work on that as well there's lots
of ways to do it but these are the big
ones
and love itself is that same thing it's
an expression and that's why in some of
the writings you'll see people talk
about love is your inherent state
because love and it's you know as as you
walk down that path of love the identity
evaporates as well
and you see that your identity is love
you are love and love is what you are
just as you are nothing and nothing is
what you are
it is it is when the
when the sense of self dissolves into
the whole if you will then love is the
result that's not Emptiness is the
result
so this this process of you know it
seems like a lot of people are on to
this you know love being so healing but
there are just so many ways that you can
get caught in an Eddie or a Backwater
um or in a shadow so what are what are
some of the main misconceptions about
love that we hold everybody's a little
bit different here and and people's
misconceptions of Love are based on
their childhood
so if the thing that you looked for to
be your role model of Love beat you then
love is painful
and if the role model that you look to
was critical then love is critical
and if love meant being nice then love
is nice
however if love meant not holding
boundaries and love is not holding
boundaries so whatever you experience
love to be
when you were young those are usually
exactly the misconceptions you hold
about love
societally however there's some pretty
big normal ones there's nice nice is a
big one like
if I'm nice to you then I'm loving you
which is horribly inaccurate that being
compassionate is often a very sharp
sword
right being compassionate is often
saying a hard truth in a loving way with
an open heart
I remember when I was a kid I I had I
lied all the time
it was like I was compulsively lined I
was like a freshman in high school and
and it was to make people like me
and this guy his name I remember it was
Alex Bell and he and he said to me he
said Hey Joe this is like a week before
the end of school he said Hey Joe you
know
we all know that you're lying all the
time and we would all like you so much
more if you didn't
um
and I it was the most profound Act of
love that I had experienced to that date
and I'm sure it was scary as [__] for
him to say
and
nobody else had said it nobody else
would give me that information and my
line just stopped it just like there was
no nothing else needed to happen my line
just stopped at that point
or reduced by 97 or something like that
right and subtotically yeah yeah and so
it was like that's an act of love but
that sure as [__] wasn't nice
and so I think a lot of times people
mistake being nice because they they
think that if they love somebody there's
not going to be conflict or something
like that that's just not how love works
um the other thing that's often the case
is a lot of people are scared to be in
love because they have a conception that
love doesn't hold boundaries
as if Gandhi didn't hold boundaries if
as if Mother Teresa didn't hold
boundaries love is holding boundaries
great mothers like the thing that we
think as loving is Mothers they hold
boundaries all the time
so that's another one I think that
people really have a problem seeing that
love is holding boundaries and I think
that the the other one that's most
commonly
not seen is that is that love can't
really exist without empowerment
you can't really love
if you're not empowered
You Can Be You Can Be fond of you can be
scared of losing
you can really really really want you
can desire but to actually love in a in
a way that is Beyond you that is a deep
welcoming
the only way you can deeply welcome all
the good and the bad and the dangerous
and the unknown mystery is to feel
deeply empowered to not be worried of
the results
what are some uh some other examples of
how this has shown up in your life it
just shows up in people's lives day to
day yeah wow so many you know you you
see lovers husbands wives say that they
deeply love each other but they're
constantly trying to change each other
or they're scared of losing one another
that's not love that's habit
you know I don't think it's really
possible to love somebody fully and want
them to change then you're loving them
if they show up a certain way
or loving yourself that way is another
example of it
being in a job and being scared to get
fired is another example of what isn't
love there's a famous coach who used to
say lead with love and if you're scared
of getting fired you can't lead with
love then then you're leading from Fear
so that there's a lot of things like
that and the thing I think that people
don't really understand is
people say love is the answer or Love
Will Find A Way Or Love Will you know
all those things about love but nobody
really talks about the mechanism of what
makes love so powerful
what makes it
that
if I love a part of myself or if I love
a part of you I have a more
power over that part of you than if I
don't
like what makes that happen is the
question that I think a lot of people
don't fully understand
and the best way to look at it is
internally
which is
if I love
an aspect of myself
that so far I haven't been able to love
it gets to move it gets to express and
it gets to evolve
if I'm saying that that part is bad I'm
containing it I'm holding it so it can't
move and so it can't evolve
and so that's how the mechanism works
it's like if I love you unconditionally
then you don't have to be constantly
managing yourself and then evolution
can like double time it
and and that's how it works is that that
loving of ourselves and others or a
situation is one of the best change
agents for it the only difference is
it's not changing in the way that you
want it to
change in the way that you want to do
but it's gonna
change in a way that's best for it and
you
but that doesn't always correspond with
what you want the mechanism of love
is that you allow for something to be
able to move and therefore can evolve
instead of holding it in place
it's just like if you have a kid and you
want them to evolve don't you know stick
them in a room with no lights on you you
let them play and explore and Learn and
Grow
so this this uh allowing something to
move allowing things to move feels a lot
like undefendedness which is kind of
brings us to the the second half of this
this topic of love over defense what
what do you mean by defense and how does
that relate to this
yeah on the mine side defenses any way
that you've decided that they're
separation
they don't understand
I'm better than them
this course moves too slow for me
any way that you're creating separation
between you and other people that
they're
they come from an inferior race they are
better than me they come from a better
race all of it all of that is separation
and that's the mental place somatically
it's literally like a wall typically in
front of you typically from you know
somewhere from the perineum up into the
like top of your head and it's stronger
for different people in different places
but it's literally you can just feel
like the
shutting down
and on a gut it's a gut level it's a
subtle fear that's what defense is
but clearly there are times in life when
you need to defend yourself and we've
talked a lot about how boundaries are a
part of love and that can feel like
defense
yeah yeah the thing is we mistake that
defending ourselves can't be welcoming
that's the way that I would say it like
just because I have to draw a boundary
or I want to draw a boundary
doesn't mean that I can't love you just
because I am in a fight with you if I'm
literally gonna say okay I can't allow
this person to
throw trash all over my front lawn so I
I'm in a a a fight with you it doesn't
mean that I can't welcome you
and I think that this is like best
best in any religious book I've ever
seen it I think it's the bhagavadavita
and our I'm so bad with names
yeah and the the there it starts off
with
a man who's about to get into a war with
his brothers with like people that he
loves and he prays to I think it's
Krishna
who has the conversation with him and
and which is what most of the book is
about and he says like hey you gotta
fight
he doesn't say no don't fight he says
you gotta fight
and this is the thing about
it doesn't mean you have to give up
loving
to fight so life is tension generally
call it a fight call attention life is
tension if I took all the tension out of
your cell it would die if I took all the
tension out of your body you would die
tension and life they they require one
another or at least life requires
tension and if you give it up then
you're dead so the only thing left then
is how you hold it how do you hold the
fight
and that's what this book really talks
about really well is like okay this is
the fight but how do you hold the fight
and and that's the same thing here like
just because you've engaged in the war
doesn't mean that you have to stop
loving people
and that's the thing that that's the
confusion that I think most people feel
is that if I am going to be
um
if I am going to be in tension with you
then I have to give up my love for you
which is not at all true right I can
think of any
any circumstance where I feel like I
have
like a conflict with somebody it's so
easy to drop their humanness yeah to
make them an other to make them wrong to
make them an obstacle
and that never helps the conflict right
and you can still love them and still
overcome the obstacle so to speak they
don't have to become the obstacle
so so how do we start cultivating that
love
that allows us to experience the the
fight in a different way this is why I
think I call it a deep welcoming more
than any other reason is because there's
a visceral experience of that it's like
if you close your eyes right now and you
deeply welcome yourself here
and love yourself just as you are right
now
that's it that's all there is to it
we can make it more complex and I'm sure
we will in this podcast but that's all
there is to it how do you deeply welcome
yourself in
this moment and in the next moment and
the moment after that it's a very
somatic experience to be loved
yeah I just did that in the uh the first
thing was that I noticed tension in my
body and then I just immediately relaxed
right
right so it's literally like you have a
feeling of love for something maybe it's
for your dog or maybe it's for
your child or maybe it's for your mother
or maybe it's for a friend like how do
you give yourself that same feeling that
you have you that you give to them how
do you feel the same thing you feel for
them for yourself
that's the best way to cultivate love
because
our capacity to love all the bits of
ourselves is directly correlated to our
capacity to love everybody on the planet
the more that you learn to love all the
parts of yourself the more you're
capable of loving everybody on the
planet
hmm so what else what else can we do
um well one thing for sure is if you
can't love yourself and love your
resistance
it doesn't really matter in the moment
what it is you're capable of loving
there's no time when we're incapable of
love for anything
so
if you find yourself like I just can't
love myself right now then love the fact
that you can't love yourself also the
other thing you can do is not again
we've talked about this a little bit but
don't mistake love for caretaking
so loving yourself loving somebody else
isn't caretaking them it's not
saying yes no even if you want to say no
it's not going against your truth
it's not trying to make them happier
it's just having a deep welcome mean for
who they are
[Music]
um
what if what if you identify ways that
you're caretaking and you're afraid to
stop doing them and then you realize
that you're not loving and then you get
hard on yourself about that
uh you've got lots of choices there you
can love the fact that you're a
caretaker you can love the part that is
so scared that it thinks like it needs
to be a caretaker you can love
um
the part of yourself that thinks that
getting angry at uh yourself will
actually change anything
you can love uh the part of yourself
that is um really wanting what's best
for them and yourself and doesn't know
how to get there
all sorts of parts of yourself to love
in that circumstance
anything else that we can do to
cultivate this
to cultivate this love yes we can draw
drawing boundaries is really good
that's a that's a great way to really
cultivate love in yourself and in others
describe a boundary that you might set
with yourself oh that's a good one so
first the thing is that people think
about boundaries as a form of separation
and I just said like oh like look
mentally defense is separation so
I think it's important to talk about
that Paradox first which is when you
draw a boundary
you're doing something that's good both
for you and for the other person
and that's really the opposite of
Separation it's the same actually with
being compassionate
it's there is nothing that you can do
that's compassion that's truly
compassionate for you that's also not
compassionate for those around you in
that circumstance
it's the same with a boundary and that's
the important part of a boundary so the
important parts of boundaries are that
you when you draw the boundary it in it
increases your love for the person
no matter what they're going to say to
the boundary so I know that I'm drawing
a great boundary when
I'm doing that when I'm when it opens up
my heart for to the person that I'm
drawing the boundary with
um so if I'm drawing a boundary to
myself it's I use that same thing it's
like what's the what's the thing that
actually opens my heart to myself
when I'm setting a boundary what's an
example of a boundary you might set with
yourself
uh let's say a boundary that I might set
with myself is
um
if I am noticing myself getting angry I
am going to separate myself from other
people so that I don't get angry at them
that would be a boundary that I would
set with myself
and elaborate a little bit more on how
that helps you love yourself yeah so if
I'm angry at people then I have shame
then I have blame then I have
a whole big mess usually that I have to
clean up
none of that stuff is really loving and
it's also making my anger wrong and
making parts of myself wrong
so in that boundary I stopped making
myself wrong
and when I'm drawing it
the trick is when I'm literally thinking
about drawing it it doesn't feel like an
oppression it feels like a gift yeah
that makes sense like
the part of us that we are drawing a
boundary against might otherwise feel
defensive against us making it wrong I
would say with trying a boundary with
not against
right that's that's the subtle thing
about boundaries that people think the
subtle thing about boundaries it is
against
right because we value this idea of
freedom so greatly in ourselves and
that's the other part of drawing a
boundary that's so important the other
part of drawing a boundary that is so
important is that you're not asking them
to be any different you're saying I'm
going to be different so if I'm drawing
a boundary with
um this is different with children
obviously
um but if I'm drawing a boundary with a
friend
and that person to use the same example
has a tendency to get angry and I would
say my boundary with you is when you get
angry I'm going to walk away happy to
re-engage with you whenever you're not
yelling at me or if you're yelling at me
then I'm gonna walk away and I'm happy
to re-engage with you
I'm not asking them to stop yelling at
me I'm not asking for them to stop
drinking I'm not asking for them to stop
I'm saying what I'm gonna do in these
circumstances it's like creating a
background of safety and connection
regardless of how they act so that they
don't have to be a certain way that's
exactly right it's it's the fully
empowered move
it's taking full responsibility of your
for yourself
if you start trying to love yourself to
change yourself it won't work
because trying to change yourself isn't
loving yourself
so what happens for a lot of people is
they start to feel the power of love and
they start to feel how
loving unconditionally starts
transforming the world they start
wanting more of it and so then they
start loving to transform the world and
then it stops working because if you're
trying to love to transform the world
you're not loving anymore
so it's a really important thing to see
that the love if it gets tainted it just
stops working so as we are cultivating
This Love
and these like the defenses that creep
in taint that love how do we at the same
time as we're working to cultivate love
how do we work on lowering our defenses
as well there's a feeling when we lower
our defenses that we're what we're
actually doing is allowing a whole bunch
of emotions we don't want to feel to be
felt and those emotions purify us they
start to
dismantle that sense of self
and it literally feels like it sometimes
like it's burning away or that it's
melting or something to that effect and
so there's an intensity to that
every time we lower our defense there's
kind of this little thing inside of us
is like oh we're gonna be [__]
destroyed we're gonna be destroyed don't
do that if I lower my defense I'll be
destroyed don't do that so there's an
intensity with doing it well there's a
truth to that too like a part of
ourselves does get destroyed exactly
there's a great saying by pemma shodron
that says um I'm gonna paraphrase it
says open yourself up for annihilation
because that way you can find out what
part of yourself can't be annihilated
and so that's what you're doing you're
just allowing that purification
to happen and you know it because
there's an intensity to it if oftentimes
a fear as well
and to feel into that like step into
that deeply is the move to make around
the defenses
and surrender is a really is another
really good move in these moments it's
you're not surrendering to the
circumstances
you're surrendering to not defending
yourself
so what do I mean by that
I had a great experience of this there
was a man and I was on the board of
directors with them
with this person and he was bad for the
company and he also had this tendency to
like whatever I said he would do the
exact opposite thing
and so what I did was I told him hey
um I'm gonna try to remove you from the
board I will stop trying to remove you
from the board at any time
that we can actually work together well
and that your and your thought processes
aren't just against mine
and even and we love contrarian thinking
and Boards typically any board I've been
a part of but this was just contrary for
this sake of contrarian it wasn't
contrary because it was independent
thinking
anyway so every time for like six weeks
I calm up and I would say or six months
I would say this is what I'm gonna do
and this is what I suggest you do and he
would do the exact opposite of that the
entire time
and by doing exactly the opposite of
what he said is how he got himself
removed from the board
if at any time he would have said oh
oh I see and called me up and talked to
me and said oh wow you're really giving
me the advice so I was constantly able
to give him the advice that was actually
the best for him
I was constantly able to
say this is what I think is best for you
and for it to be accurate
and it is also the fact that he couldn't
do it that led to his removal from the
board which was best for the company if
he couldn't
you know learn to work with people and
be collaborative
that's that's fascinating and I'm
curious how you differentiate in that
story for the this like love over
defense versus knowing what's best for
him and versus controlling him through
suggestions the main difference is what
you're feeling internally
right I am welcoming him as he is and at
the same time I know I am making the
call that says the this company is
better without you
so that's my call to make just like it's
his call to make and he was making the
call that the company would be better
without me right or that whatever China
should win the war or Korea should win
the war or like those are calls that
people are going to make that's the war
and you have to call what you think is
best but that doesn't mean I ever had to
close my heart to him and the way that I
could act to not close my heart to him
is to constantly tell him this is
actually what I think is the best thing
to do and to tell him
I'm gonna keep on telling you to do this
stuff as long as you keep on like so I
gave him the whole map I told him the
key I gave him everything to get out of
it
and it and he chose not to do that so
for me I could keep a very it was
literally me at the time it was the
first time that I was like oh I am in a
war how do I maintain an open heart and
the way I could do it was to give him
every opportunity I could possibly think
of
and so that that's the only difference
and I think the thing is from the
outside it might not look different at
all
from the inside it's like it's a far
more effective way to fight a war right
I mean you hear this from people who are
Fighters all the time try to get your
opponent angry because if they get angry
they'll be less effective
like what what happens if the person
you're fighting has a big open heart for
you and they're still determined to win
how angry did this board member get oh
he got pretty angry
and there's definitely multiple
occasions where he called up yelling and
then for me that was the practice he
would call up yelling and I would just
keep on opening my heart
and keep on feeling the discomfort and
keep on feeling my emotions
and you know lots of Heartache for me
there was a lot of heartbreak in it and
that was my purification was that
heartbreak tell me more about that
heartbreak
yeah I have this saying that
um every time my heart breaks it
increases my capacity to love
so heartbreak is literally like this
it's like the feeling of it of it of it
breaking open to expander the feeling of
expansion
of the hardly and it and that's the
feeling and and it it's kind of
interesting because I think it
I've obviously never given birth but
when my wife talks about birth she goes
I don't know why they call them
contractions when they're really
expansions but there's a feeling that
there it's a contraction as well as an
expansion and heartbreak there's like
literally that that's the visceral
feeling of it for me anyway and
and so there's this feeling of like
heartbreak that just that just totally
increases my capacity to love another
great example of This was
um I don't know if I've shared this
story
but there was a time when I was just
totally bothered by all like inane
conversation just
two people talking about going 65 miles
an hour on the way to Santa Barbara
whatever it was would just drive me nuts
and
and there's this day where I kind of
recognized that I I shut down when this
was happening and so I was like I'm not
going to shut down I'm going to sit
there I'm going to feel whatever there
is underneath this
so I would hang out with people having
to name conversations and I would just
weep I would just cry
probably at times I had some idea of why
I was crying and I think it and at the
Crux of it I was crying because
I had just shut this entire part of life
off it's like I'd cut off a part of
myself
and as I opened it up there was just
this pain of like oh wow I've lost this
for so long
what was it that you had lost the
ability to connect in this on this
fashion that I had judged this way of
connecting one more way of connecting
with people that I had separated myself
from
because of my own self-definition
and so I just weeped it was very awkward
I mean you know saying there for crying
they'd be like you did this with them oh
yeah I did yeah present in their
presence yeah it was it was awkward at
times and they'd be like what's wrong
I'm like yeah it's nothing don't worry
about it you know and I just keep on
they'd kind of and then they keep on
they're used to having those levels of
conversation so
asking me about this twice wasn't really
going to happen and and then all of a
sudden I was praying that I was just
completely able to enjoy the kind of the
more superficial way of connecting and
and even found out that there's some of
that super quote-unquote superficial way
of connecting this not superficial at
all that you know connecting Over
Flowers or connecting over
food or connected like there's a a
there's a very sensual non-heady level
of connection that is is quite sweet and
has a depth that deep conversations
don't have something juicy in that story
for me is that
you you started weeping in front of in
front of people and then they asked you
what was going on with you inviting
depth and then you're like oh it's
nothing yes that's right that's right
because I wanted to be that's exactly it
because I wanted to like feel the
Heartbreak I didn't want to like disturb
the thing that was breaking my heart
like once you once you realize that
heartbreak increases your capacity to
love then it's like man I want it I want
that heartbreak
because I know that at the back side of
it there's so much more love available
to me
so yeah of yes if I could shut it down
I'd shut it down because I'd want to
just keep on feeling the pain of the of
a superficial conversation
so that I could I could feel that
heartbreak and it was the same with this
guy
it's like just to feel the Heartbreak of
the fact that here's two people who want
something great to happen in the world
who want this company to be successful
and this is the only outcome that I I
know how to create you know whatever I
didn't have the capacity to really get
him on board or bring them along or
whatever I could and I don't know if I
could have ever but but that heartbreak
and not in capacity to feel into that
totally increase my capacity to love how
is it that experiencing that that
heartbreak is can be experienced as not
discouraging but as empowering I think
you have to live through it a couple
times I don't know if there's another
way to do it but to just live through it
a couple times I think that the
once you live through heartbreak and you
realize how
how much it increases the love in your
life then
then it's just like
going into a hot sauna you know when the
if you go into the hot sauna the first
time you're like what the are you guys
doing I'm out of here like my Skin's
burning what the hell like I'm talking
about like a real sauna not an American
sauna right yeah yeah and
and there's there's nothing logical
about doing it but then you do it a
couple times and you're like oh man I
can't wait to get back to the sauna it
goes for a cold plunge the same goes to
a cold lunch it's the exact same thing
it's like it it the payoff is so great
that you're like let's do it so it
really seems that this this love thing
seems to be the Crux of all of this
teaching yeah
absolutely it is I mean we the first
real week was view which is
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder that's that's really
unconditional love if you put all those
three things together and that's another
great pointer to unconditional love
you feel vulnerable because you're open
and welcoming
you're impartial because you're
welcoming as is not telling them how to
be
empathy means you're open and feeling
them you're allowing yourself to be
touched
and wonder is this basic nod that the
Universe knows more than you do that
it's it's still a mystery and will
always be a mystery
and that really prevents you from
wanting to try to change stuff
change things so we start off with View
and we end with love and they're very
much the same thing they're the whole
thing everything we've done in this
course has been to move us towards a
greater state of love for ourselves and
others
I think the thing about it is is that it
it can't be done out of order
you know a lot of people will move
straight to love they'll say okay I'm
just going to love everything all the
time
I think that's great don't don't get me
wrong but it just doesn't seem to work
as well
to love everything as an escape you know
or to love everything as a
as a bypass
or to love everything so that you don't
have to feel it to love everything means
that you're really happy to feel
everything
that you're happy to express everything
that you're happy to be wrong about
everything
that you're happy to be empowered
and you're happy to feel helpless
yeah it's a deep welcoming of life
and a lot of times people will use love
as a way to cut off a certain portion of
it yeah the the question I was about to
ask but you've just explained it was uh
what makes it that you didn't call this
work the art of unconditional love
oh that's it I don't want to answer that
question
[Laughter]
um there's a part of me that says you
answer as a as a as a business guy but
also as a um as a coach you meet people
with where they are
right you meet people with with the
problems they think they have and most
people aren't walking around going I
just don't know how to love enough I I
you know what my the biggest problem I
have is that I don't have a my heart
isn't broken enough you know like I
don't get enough heartbreak you don't
get most people aren't walking around
saying that so you meet them with where
they are and
luckily the unconditional love piece and
especially with the emotional fluidity
and the empowerment and
seeing yourself as inherently good
which is the Crux of the fulcrum that
the love uses to create its leverage
um reminds me of where I first met you
which was a uh Consciousness hacking
talk entitled how to make Better
Business decisions yeah that's what I
need to do exactly and and so check it
out though have you been making Better
Business decisions absolutely yeah see
that's the cool thing is like it you can
actually deliver on the promise
but you can deliver on it only because
it's so effectively only because you're
speaking to the deeper truth and I think
the other reason just to say it is is
that semantically everybody thinks about
love very differently so if you say it
you've got 20 different viewpoints
immediately
and so it just makes it harder to really
go through the process yeah I think one
of the one of the main resistances to
like doing some kind of group work
around unconditional love is that it'll
just turn on like it'll trip people's
cult triggers
so yeah maybe maybe another question
that I was like what is the difference
between uh doing this kind of work in a
group and finding unconditional love
together and a cult yeah well this is
the surrender piece this is why I don't
use surrender right because that little
thing about surrender that's in there is
it's basically I'm gonna ask you to give
up responsibility for yourself
whereas everything that we do is very
much pointing directly at take
responsibility for yourself the wisdom
is inside you if you look at how I
interact with students
I'm mostly asking questions and I'm also
saying tell me what your instinct says
tell me what's moving you because I
trust that more than I trust me
because I know like I might know the
terrain I might know the map I might
know you know the six most likely places
that you want to end up but only you
know where you are at this moment and
know what the next move is and that's
the big difference it's why I don't
emphasize surrender because as soon as
you emphasize surrender people think
surrender to what
and if I do say something like hey
surrender to
the ineffable part of yourself then all
of a sudden there's a definition what is
that how do I do that and then that
definition it becomes what you surrender
to instead of the thing itself
how I I think a lot of the what you're
speaking to comes from when when people
get into a teacher role
they end up subtly asking for people to
surrender to them because it sounds like
this it comes from a lack of trust in
people's internal
uh internal work and like what is it
that makes you feel so trusting when you
are working with somebody on one of our
q a calls somebody who's miles and miles
away and could just freak out and close
their laptop and then go do something
insane uh what makes you
feel so much trust for their
internal compass that you feel safe
doing this work with them without the
sense of control that
would lead to them surrendering to you
yeah that's a great question I've never
been asked that question before
it's funny what happens in my system
when you ask it is just like this deep
sense of humility
the intellectual answer I want to give
you is because that thing in them is the
same thing that guided me
and I I just wasn't lucky enough to or
I wasn't ripe enough to be able to be
given
someone to guide me in this way so
I I had to trust my own and so I just
trusted in that way I think that's part
of it
[Music]
um
but there's another part of it too which
is its experience I've Just Seen it's
just so many times I'm like this is I
can see
where the path leads and I can
watch the person just instinctually make
the next right move over and over and
over again and not just the person
almost everybody that I
and and whenever I question I'm like oh
that's going to be like a back pedal
it turns out it's like the perfect back
pedal for them and I don't mean that in
a kind of hippie way of like
everything's perfect just the way it's
supposed to be I mean it just like
just like roses know how to grow
they just know how to do it
you know grass just knows what to do
birds just know what to do they just
know it
I don't have to trust them I don't have
to trust the trees and people like that
there is a a gravity a center of gravity
just
asking
and all they have to really do is just
get out of the way and and all my
questions are literally just questions
to help them
see themselves there's no question I'm
asking
that's underlying point isn't just to
have them see themselves
[Music]
wow well thanks Joe this has been
another amazing episode yeah what a
pleasure I'm sad that they're done yeah
I'm glad that they're done because I
could choose a little more free time but
I'm sad that they're done because I'm
not gonna get to play with you for a
couple
yeah I'm excited to see what kind of
playing happens again in the future yeah
yeah it will for sure
what a pleasure Brett thank you thank
you thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]